1.Does any of the above three components play a role in the defining the Precession of the number ? If so which are the component or Components  which play the  role in defining precession  and how ? Explain this with example in your own words
Answer 1.Smallest change that can be represented in floating point format is called as the precision. There are three type of floating type format
1.Half Precision Floating Point Format(16-bit data)
2.Single Precision Floating Point Format(32-bit data)
3.Double Precision Floating Point Format(64-bit data)

There are major three component in all the three format - Sign bit,Exponent bits and Fraction bits.The Fraction bits  plays an important role in defining the Precision for example if we compare 1.7 * 10^1 and 17.0 the error in second case is less compare to that of the first one. Therefore fraction plays an important role in Precision.

2.What is Normal and Subnormal  Values as per IEEE 754  standards  explain this  with the  help of number line
Answer 2.Normal representation will have finitie number of leading zero values but in subnormal form there is no finite number of leading zero in the mantissa part.
For example for the same number representation in two different format is as follows

1.Normal format - 2.01 *2^-8
2.Subnormal format- 0.000201 *2^-4

3.IEEE 754vv defines standards for rounding floating points numbers to a represent able value. There are five methods defines by IEEE for this – Take time and  understand what these five methods and explain it in your words using diagrams, illustrations of your own.
Answer 3. Airthmatic is performed by computing the result and then it is rounded to fit in a particular format.In many cases correct answer is between two format and then it chooses one of the formats to  represent the number. 
There are five rounding rules in IEEE 754 format

1.Round to nearest, ties to even - In this method real number is rounded to the nearest even number. for example if a number is 6.2 it will be rounded off to 6.

2.Rounded to nearest, ties away from zero -Real number is rounded off to the nearest integer number. If it is in between positive and negative number it will convert to a closest integer value.

3.Rounded Towards zero - While going towards zero it truncates to the nearest integer value. For example -7.2 will truncate to -7.

4.Round Towards -infinty -Real number is truncated to the nearest integer while going towards zero for example -8.6 is rounded off to -9.

5.Rounded Towards +infinity- Real number is rounded off towards nearest integer while going toward 0.	For example 8.2 will be rounded to 9. 